README.md, before:

# Assignment #2

In this task, you will be implementing a python-based simple mail client, which can send email to any recipient. Your email client should connect to a mail server and communicate using the SMTP protocol.

_Note_: You are not allowed to use the `smtplib` python library.

## Part I
Using sockets, connect to campus SMTP mail server. Then implement the smtp conversations in the python program `myUtepEmailClient` which will contact with the server to send your email to "your_email@utep.edu". 
- From [Microsoft's website](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/pop-and-imap-email-settings-for-outlook-8361e398-8af4-4e97-b147-6c6c4ac95353?ui=en-us&rs=en-us&ad=us), the following settings are used for UTEP's Office365 SMTP settings:
    - Server: smtp.office365.com
    - Port: 587
    - Encryption: STARTTLS
- To create the mail server, I followed [this Python socket tutorial](https://realpython.com/python-sockets/)
- For the syntax on socket communications when it comes to logging in, I used [this resource on SMTP commands](https://blog.mailtrap.io/smtp-commands-and-responses/) to format my commands.
    - does UTEP have issues because of SSO?
    - or is it a setting I'd need to contact tech support for? (see [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/exchange/clients-and-mobile-in-exchange-online/authenticated-client-smtp-submission) for more infoormation)

## Part II
Using sockets, connect to a popular webmail server, like AOL mail server. Then perform the same task as Part-I and implement the smtp conversations in the python program `myExternalEmailClient.py` which will contact with the SMTP server to send your email to "your_email@gmail.com".
- From [Microsoft's website](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/pop-and-imap-email-settings-for-outlook-8361e398-8af4-4e97-b147-6c6c4ac95353?ui=en-us&rs=en-us&ad=us), the following settings are used for UTEP's Office365 SMTP settings:
    - Server: smtp.aol.com
    - Port: 587
    - Encryption: TLS
- In addition to the commands list in Part 1, to connect to `smtp.aol.com` server, [this page on examples for commands in SMTP communications](http://shareviewsnative.blogspot.com/2012/10/501-551-heloehlo-requires-domain-address.html)
- I also used [this resource](https://www.samlogic.net/articles/smtp-commands-reference.htm) to debug my `AUTH LOGIN` errors

## Reference
- [4 Ways to Check Email Flow using SMTP Commands](https://medium.com/@david07russel/4-ways-to-check-email-flow-using-smtp-commands-caee57a8e68e)
- [List of All SMTP Commands and Response Codes](https://blog.mailtrap.io/smtp-commands-and-responses/)
- [ShellHacks: Command-Line Tips and Tricks](https://www.shellhacks.com/send-email-smtp-server-command-line/)

Commit message:

untested: added TLS secure connection for socket with user-specified CAs locations, server-->clnt var change

README.md, after:

# Assignment #2

In this task, you will be implementing a python-based simple mail client, which can send email to any recipient. Your email client should connect to a mail server and communicate using the SMTP protocol.

_Note_: You are not allowed to use the `smtplib` python library.

## Part I
Using sockets, connect to campus SMTP mail server. Then implement the smtp conversations in the python program `myUtepEmailClient` which will contact with the server to send your email to "your_email@utep.edu". 
- From [Microsoft's website](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/pop-and-imap-email-settings-for-outlook-8361e398-8af4-4e97-b147-6c6c4ac95353?ui=en-us&rs=en-us&ad=us), the following settings are used for UTEP's Office365 SMTP settings:
    - Server: __smtp.office365.com__
    - Domain: __1417249971.mail.outlook.com__ (_from the NSLOOKUP command for domain `miners.utep.edu`_)
    - Port: __587__
    - Encryption: __STARTTLS__
- To create the mail client, I followed [this Python socket tutorial](https://realpython.com/python-sockets/) to better understand the socket commands
- For the syntax on socket communications when it comes to logging in to an SMTP mail server, I used [this resource on SMTP commands](https://blog.mailtrap.io/smtp-commands-and-responses/) to format my commands.
- However, there arose some issues when connecting to UTEP's domain mail server:
    - when starting TLS (encrypted connection)
    - does UTEP have issues because of SSO?
        - likely no if I can access the `miners.utep.edu` domain
    - or is it a setting I'd need to contact tech support/admin for? (see [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/exchange/clients-and-mobile-in-exchange-online/authenticated-client-smtp-submission) for more information)
        - all search results lead to this being the issue when attempting to login to my UTEP account through SMTP lines of communication (both on the command and in the scripts in this project)
    - connecting to [UTEP's VPN](https://vpn.utep.edu) does not allow the program or communications to move any further

## Part II
Using sockets, connect to a popular webmail server, like AOL mail server. Then perform the same task as Part-I and implement the smtp conversations in the python program `myExternalEmailClient.py` which will contact with the SMTP server to send your email to "your_email@gmail.com".
- From [Microsoft's website](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/pop-and-imap-email-settings-for-outlook-8361e398-8af4-4e97-b147-6c6c4ac95353?ui=en-us&rs=en-us&ad=us), the following settings are used for AOL's SMTP settings:
    - Server: __smtp.aol.com__
    - Domain: __mx-aol.mail.gm0.yahoodns.net__ (_from the NSLOOKUP command for domain `aol.com`_)
    - Port: __587__
    - Encryption: __TLS__
- In addition to the commands list in Part 1, to connect to `smtp.aol.com` server,
    - I used [this page](https://www.samlogic.net/articles/smtp-commands-reference.htm) for the examples of commands in SMTP communications
    - I fixed my bug in logging in by following the solution to [this page](http://shareviewsnative.blogspot.com/2012/10/501-551-heloehlo-requires-domain-address.html) to debug my `AUTH PLAIN` errors
    - I also followed the instructions in [this page](https://www.ndchost.com/wiki/mail/test-smtp-auth-telnet) to see if I can actually send an email through SMTP on the command line.

## Reference
- [4 Ways to Check Email Flow using SMTP Commands](https://medium.com/@david07russel/4-ways-to-check-email-flow-using-smtp-commands-caee57a8e68e)
- [List of All SMTP Commands and Response Codes](https://blog.mailtrap.io/smtp-commands-and-responses/)
- [ShellHacks: Command-Line Tips and Tricks](https://www.shellhacks.com/send-email-smtp-server-command-line/)
